# Introduction

VISI: What it is and what is its goal?

VISI is a system of agreements that aims to support collaboration using
digital communication.\
The drivers of VISI:

1.  Joint work agreements. Always offer clarity about who has to do what
    or who has decided what at what time;

2.  Up-to-date and complete communication files. This provides insight
    into the progress of the collaboration and prevents noise in
    communication.

3.  Organizations take the step from document-driven working to data-
    and process-driven working

With the help of VISI, organisation get a better grip on, and become
more mature in, steering and structuring projects and collaborations.\

<div class="example">
<p>
Construction project example: We do this by thinking in advance about
the communication that takes place between the Client and the Contractor
in accordance with, among other things, the UAV and UAVgc contract
forms, with the addition of the contract documents containing agreements
about communication. This is translated into messages in a pre-agreed
workflow with associated response times. This allows all parties to
concentrate on the content and implementation of the project during the
project.
</p>
</div>

## Purpose of this documentation

The construction sector is the owner of the open standard VISI. manages
the VISI standard. is advised by an expert committee. This expert
committee includes software vendors who have implemented VISI. They are
in close contact with the users, who in turn ask for new
functionalities, which may lead to adjustments to the standard. The
various software developers are each responsible for (and owner of)
their own implementation of the VISI standard within their software
applications. The VISI standard ensures that software packages can
communicate with each other and BIM guarantees this. In a project or
collaboration, organisations can work with different software packages.
By making the documentation accessible, more software vendors can
implement the VISI standard.

**Target audience**\
The conceptual documentation is for software vendors or system
administrators who want to learn more about the VISI standard and how it
is applied. End users of organisations that use VISI for communication
and other interested parties can visit the website of the for more
user-oriented documentation and application examples. We do this by
thinking in advance about the communication that takes place between the
Client and the Contractor in accordance with the appropriate contract
types, with the addition of the contract documents containing agreements
about communication. This is translated into messages in a pre-agreed
workflow with associated response times. This enables all parties to
focus on project content and execution.

The functional and technical documentation of the VISI standard is
intended for parties who want to implement the standard in their
software. Software vendors provide the information systems that are
suitable for communicating on the basis of VISI. In order to make the
documentation suitable for readers at product management level as well
as software implementation level, it has been decided to divide it into
a conceptual, functional and technical part.

[]{#sec:Inleidingsverhaal label="sec:Inleidingsverhaal"}

## Readers guide

The documentation is divided into three parts: conceptual, functional
and technical. These parts are explained in the paragraphs below. Two
examples are used at each level in the documentation: a construction
project, with a collaboration between a client and a contractor; and a
pizzeria, with a customer, a waiter and a cook.

The conceptual part describes the following:

1.  How does VISI work for the user (both in execution and preparation);

2.  structure using VISI;

3.  main VISI terms;

4.  communication based on a VISI framework;

5.  deepening of the VISI framework;

6.  guarantees to the user.
